# v1.12

First released: 2024-12-23

## New Features

### Improved Indexing Speed
Meilisearch v1.12 introduces significant improvements in indexing speed, reducing the time required to index large datasets. This enhancement is particularly noticeable on larger machines with multiple cores and good I/O performance, achieving more than twice the speed for raw document insertion tasks and over four times faster for incremental updates.

### New Index Settings: `facetSearch` and `prefixSearch`
Two new settings have been added to enhance indexing speed:

- **`facetSearch`**: This setting allows you to toggle facet search for filterable attributes. By default, it is enabled.
 
 ```bash
 curl \
 -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/books/settings/facet-search' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary 'true'
 ```

- **`prefixSearch`**: This setting controls the ability to search for words by prefix. Disabling it can speed up indexing but may affect search relevancy.

 ```bash
 curl \
 -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/books/settings/prefix-search' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary 'disabled'
 ```

### New API Route: `/batches`
A new endpoint `/batches` has been introduced to query information about task batches. You can retrieve a list of batches or details about a specific batch.

- To get a list of batches:

 ```bash
 curl -X GET 'http://localhost:7700/batches'
 ```

- To get details of a specific batch:

 ```bash
 curl -X GET 'http://localhost:7700/batches/BATCH_UID'
 ```

## Improvements

### Max Readers Parameter
You can now set the maximum number of readers through an environment variable, which helps optimize resource usage.

### Enhanced Task Cancellation
The new indexer improves the speed of task cancellation, making it more efficient to manage ongoing operations.

### Improved Error Messages
Error messages have been enhanced to include more context, such as the index name, making it easier to diagnose issues.

## Other

### Breaking Change: `vectorStore`
The field distribution no longer contains `_vectors`. This change was made to correct an issue with incorrect values and to streamline the data structure.