# v1.2

First released: 2023-06-05

## New Features

### Delete Documents by Filter
You can now delete documents using filters with the new `/documents/delete` route. This allows for more precise document management.

Example usage:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/dogs/documents/delete \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{ "filter": ["doggo = \'bernese mountain\'", "face = cute"] }'
```

The response will include a summarized task object:

```json
{
  "taskUid": 242,
  "indexUid": "dogs",
  "status": "enqueued",
  "type": "documentDeletion",
  "enqueuedAt": "2023-05-03T11:01:58.721841Z"
}
```

### Get Documents by Filter
You can now retrieve documents using filters in the `GET` endpoint of the `/documents` route:

```bash
curl -X GET 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/dogs/documents?limit=1&filter=doggo=bernese'
```

Additionally, the new `/documents/fetch` route allows for handling complex filters:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/dogs/documents/fetch \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{ "limit": 1, "filter": "doggo = bernese" }'
```

### New Filter Operators: `IS EMPTY` and `IS NULL`
Two new filter operators have been introduced: `IS EMPTY` and `IS NULL`. These operators allow for more nuanced queries.

Example documents:

```json
[
 {
 "id": 0,
 "color": 
 },
 {
 "id": 1,
 "color": null
 },
 {
 "id": 2
 }
]
```

- `color IS EMPTY` matches document `0`.
- `color IS NULL` matches document `1`.

### Automated Task Deletion
The maximum number of tasks in the task queue is now limited to 1 million. When this limit is reached, Meilisearch will attempt to delete the oldest tasks to make room for new ones.

## Improvements

### Improved Relevancy and Search Performance
Significant refactoring has been done to enhance performance and relevancy. Key improvements include:

- The fastest 75% of queries now consistently respond in under 50ms.
- Limitations on search query complexity to optimize CPU and RAM usage.
- Enhanced geo search performance and sorting.

### Language Support Improvements
- Improved segmentation for camelCase in Latin.
- Enhanced normalization and segmentation for Arabic.

## Other

### Re-indexing Required
After upgrading to v1.2.1, you must re-index your dataset. The easiest way to do this is to create a dump and import it into the new version:

1. Create a dump:
 ```http
 POST /dumps
 ```

2. Import the dump:
 ```http
 POST /dumps/import
 ```