# v1.5

First released: 2023-11-20

## New Features

### Snapshots on-demand
You can now create snapshots on demand using the new `/snapshots` API route. This allows you to manage your data backups more flexibly.

To create a snapshot, send a POST request to the following endpoint:

```bash
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/snapshots'
```

The response will include a summarized task object indicating the status of the snapshot creation.

### Experimental Feature: Export Puffin Reports
An experimental feature has been introduced that allows Meilisearch to automatically export `.puffin` reports. These reports provide insights into Meilisearch's internal processes, which can be useful for diagnosing performance issues.

To activate this feature, use the following PATCH request:

```bash
curl \
 -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
 "exportPuffinReports": true
 }'
```

## Improvements

### Indexing Speed Improvements
The indexing speed for text-heavy datasets has been enhanced. Datasets with fields containing more than 100 words can expect a reduction in indexing times by 5% to 20%, depending on the document length. This improvement may slightly affect search result relevancy for queries with four or more words.

### Khmer Language Support
Support for the Khmer language has been added, expanding the accessibility of Meilisearch for users who speak this language.

### Integration of `meilitool` in Docker Image
The `meilitool` command line interface is now integrated into the Meilisearch Docker image. This tool allows you to cancel tasks and create dumps for stuck Meilisearch instances. You can access it by running `meilitool --help` inside the running Meilisearch container.

## Other

### Experimental `/metrics` Route Activation
The experimental `/metrics` route can now be activated via HTTP requests. Note that you should avoid using the CLI flag and the API simultaneously when managing experimental features.