# v1.1.0 🐡

Released: 2023-04-03

Meilisearch v1.1.0 introduces the much-requested multi-index search! You can now use one single HTTP request to perform different searches in multiple indexes.

Additional new features include: the `geoBoundingBox` geosearch filter, the addition of a `facetStats` object to queries using the `facets` search parameter, and the customization of CSV separators.

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that <3).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Multi-index search: allow multiple searches in a single request

Perform searches in multiple indexes in a single HTTP request using the new `/multi-search` endpoint:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "queries": [
      {
        "indexUid": "products",
        "q": "Nike",
        "limit": 1
      },
      {
        "indexUid": "brands",
        "q": "Nike",
        "limit": 1
      }
    ]
  }'
```

When you use the multi-index search endpoint, Meilisearch returns an array of results for each queried index:

```json
{
	"results": [
	  {
	    "indexUid": "products",
	    "hits": […],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 1,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 17
	  },
	  {
	    "indexUid": "brands",
	    "hits": […],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 0,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce `facetStats`

Queries containing the `facets` parameter now include a `facetStats` object by default:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "facets": ["price"]
  }'
```

`facetStats` only lists facets containing numerical values. Facets with other types of values are not included in the `facetStats` object. This object contains the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet:

```json
{
  "hits": […],
  "facetDistribution": {
    "price": {…}
  },
  "facetStats": {
    "price": {
      "min": 2,
      "max": 60
    }
  }
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## New geosearch filter: `_geoBoundingBox`

Use the `filter` search parameter and the `_geoBoundingBox` filter expression to obtain results contained within a specific geographic area.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/restaurants/search' \
  -H 'Content-type:application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "filter": "_geoBoundingBox([45.472735, 9.184019],[45.473711, 9.185613] )" }'
```

`_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])` accepts two parameters: one array specifying the top right corner, and a second array specifying the bottom left corner.

Done by @gmourier and @irevoire in #3405 and #3529.

## Removing limits on index size and count

Meilisearch no longer limits the size nor the amount of indexes a single instance may contain. You can now create an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. Under Linux, the limit is at about 80TiB.

Done by @dureuill in #3319, #3331 and #3544.

## Experimental feature: monitor Meilisearch usage with Prometheus

This release introduces an experimental feature allowing you to monitor metrics with [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/).

When launching Meilisearch, use the following flag:

```bash
meilisearch --experimental-enable-metrics
```

The `/metrics` route will be available and compatible with Prometheus.

🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need your help to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3518).

⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between Meilisearch versions. Be careful if using it in production.

Done by @irevoire, @dureuill, and @james-2001 in #3496, #3524, #3538 and #3543.

## Improve language support

* Enhance Greek support by normalizing diacritics and final sigma
* Enhance Arabic support by ignoring Tatweel
* Enhance language detection: detection now happens during indexing, reducing erroneous language recognition during search

🇯🇵 For people using Japanese datasets, language detection might still fail on small datasets. For instance, a song dataset that only contains titles in Japanese will still be detected as Chinese.<br>
If you encounter any issue, we recommend you use [this prototype](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/3588) which is an alternative version of Meilisearch v1.1 for Japanese users. Please, let us know about any feedback you may have in [this dicussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/532).

Done in #3347, #3569 and on [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.1) by @choznerol, @cymruu, @james-2001 and @ManyTheFish.

## Other improvements

* Allow wildcards (`*`) at the end of index names when creating API keys or tenant tokens (#3174) @Kerollmops & @akhildevelops
* Customize the CSV delimiter (default: `,`) with the `csvDelimiter` parameter in the document addition or update, and document addition or replace endpoints (#3505, #3534) @MixusMinimax and @irevoire
* Improve error messages: introduction of "did you mean ...?" suggestions when making typos in a Meilisearch parameter (#3492) @irevoire
* Automatically batch addition and deletion tasks together to speed up indexing (#3470) @irevoire
* Accept `null` as a valid `_geo` field when importing or updating documents (#3515) @irevoire
* Reduce crate size (from ~200MB to ~50MB) by compressing dictionaries (#3347) @ManyTheFish
* Cache the indexes stats results (#3541) @irevoire

# Fixes 🐞

* Improve facet string normalization: fixes issues when using `sortBy` with accented characters (#3372) @ManyTheFish
* Fix web interface issues: bump version of search preview to [v0.2.7](https://github.com/meilisearch/mini-dashboard/releases/tag/v0.2.7) (#3623) @bidoubiwa
* Unify "Bad latitude" and "Bad longitude" errors (#3479) @cymruu
* Prevent "Cannot allocate memory" errors when creating a lot of indexes (#3331) @dureuill
* Fix Japanese support (see [the related issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2403)) thanks to the new language detection (#3347) @ManyTheFish
* Remove `MDB_BAD_VALSIZE` error by avoiding fetching an LMDB value with an empty string (#3577) @Kerollmops
* Fix snapshots permissions on Unix system (#3561) @irevoire
* Ensure the task queue is correctly imported (#3597) @irevoire
* Fix facet normalization (#3621) @ManyTheFish

# Misc

The following changes do not impact user experience.

* GitHub CIs & test suite
  * Create a preview environment for every PR using Uffizzi (#3040 and #3482) @waveywaves
  * Improve `publish-aarch64` job that used ubuntu-18.04 (#3568) @curquiza
  * Add tests with rust nightly in CI (#3495) @ztkmkoo
  * Add `--all` to test CI (#3403) @curquiza
  * Remove cache from test CI to prevent Windows CI failures (#3422) @curquiza
  * Pin Rust version in Clippy job (#3451) @curquiza
  * Update comments in version bump CI (#3519) @curquiza
  * Fix cargo flaky (#3348) @irevoire
  * Make clippy happy for Rust 1.67, allow `uninlined_format_args` (#3434) @dureuill
* Internal documentation
  * Fixup `dumps-destination` into `dump-directory` section header in help link (#3199) @dureuill
  * Add prototype guide to CONTRIBUTING.md (#3433) @curquiza
  * Rework technical information in the README (#3399) @curquiza
  * Add image hyperlink to the README.md (#3420) @gregsadetsky
  * Update migration link to the docs (#3539) @curquiza
* Internal changes
  * Add support for running milli on iOS and macOS when using App Sandbox by activating Cargo feature for LMDB's POSIX semaphores (#3407) @GregoryConrad
  * Extract creation and last updated timestamp for v3 dump (#3343) @FrancisMurillo
  * Gitignore VScode & Jetbrains IDE folders (#3480) @AymanHamdoun
  * Import the milli repository (#3346) @Kerollmops
  * Identify builds git tagged with `prototype-...` in CLI and analytics (#3467) @dureuill
  * Use the workspace inheritance: the Meilisearch version is now present in `Cargo.toml` at the root of the repository (#3499) @irevoire
* Dependencies: bump libgit2-sys and tokio (#3409 and #3456)

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @akhildevelops, @AymanHamdoun, @cymruu, @FrancisMurillom @GregoryConrad, @gregsadetsky, @james-2001, @MixusMinimax, @waveywaves, and @ztkmkoo.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @choznerol, @cymruu, and @james-2001.
