# v1.10.0 🦩

Released: 2024-08-26

Meilisearch v1.10 introduces federated search. This innovative feature allows you to receive a single list of results for multi-search requests. v1.10 also includes a setting to manually define which language or languages are present in your documents, and two new new experimental features: the `CONTAINS` filter operator and the ability to update a subset of your dataset with a function.

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features. Consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and updates 🔥

## Federated search

Use the new `federation` setting of the `/multi-search` route to return a single search result object:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "federation": {
      "offset": 5,
      "limit": 10
    }
    "queries": [
      {
        "q": "Batman",
        "indexUid": "movies"
      },
      {
        "q": "Batman",
        "indexUid": "comics"
      }
    ]
  }'
```

Response:

```json5
{
  "hits": [
    {
      "id": 42,
      "title": "Batman returns",
      "overview": "..",
      "_federation": {
        "indexUid": "movies",
        "queriesPosition": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "comicsId": "batman-killing-joke",
      "description": "..",
      "title": "Batman: the killing joke",
      "_federation": {
        "indexUid": "comics",
        "queriesPosition": 1
      }
    },
    …
 ],
  processingTimeMs: 0,
  limit: 20,
  offset: 0,
  estimatedTotalHits: 2,
  semanticHitCount: 0,
}
```


When performing a federated search, Meilisearch merges the results coming from different sources in descending ranking score order.

If `federation` is empty (`{}`), Meilisearch  sets `offset` and `limit` to 0 and 20 respectively.

If `federation` is `null` or missing, multi-search returns one list of search result objects for each index.

### Federated results relevancy

When performing federated searches, use `federationOptions` in the request's `queries` array to configure the relevancy and the weight of each index:

```bash
curl \
 -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
  "federation": {},
  "queries": [
    {
      "q": "apple red",
      "indexUid": "fruits",
      "filter": "BOOSTED = true",
      "_showRankingScore": true,
      "federationOptions": {
        "weight": 3.0
      }
    },
    {
      "q": "apple red",
      "indexUid": "fruits",
      "_showRankingScore": true,
    }
  ]
}'
```

`federationOptions` must be an object. It supports a single field, `weight`, which must be a positive floating-point number:
- if `weight` < `1.0`, results from this index are __less__ likely to appear in the results
- if `weight` > `1.0`, results from this index are __more__ likely to appear in the results
- if not specified, `weight` defaults to `1.0`

📖 Consult the [usage page](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-10-federated-search-698dfe36ab6b4668b044f735fb40f0b2) for more information about the merge algorithm.

Done by @dureuill in #4769.

## Experimental: `CONTAINS` filter operator

Enable the `containsFilter` experimental feature to use the `CONTAINS` filter operator:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "containsFilter": true
  }'
```

`CONTAINS` filters results containing partial matches to the specified string, similar to a SQL `LIKE`:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "q": "super hero",
    "filter": "synopsis CONTAINS spider"
  }'
```

🗣️ This is an experimental feature, and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/763).

Done by @irevoire in #4804.

## Language settings

Use the new `localizedAttributes` index setting and the `locales` search parameter to explicitly set the languages used in document fields and the search query itself. This is particularly useful for <=v1.9 users who have to occasionally resort to alternative Meilisearch images due to language auto-detect issues in [Swedish](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/4604) and [Japanese](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/3882) datasets.

Done by @ManyTheFish in #4819.

### Set language during indexing with `localizedAttributes`

Use the newly introduced `localizedAttributes` setting to explicitly declare which languages correspond to which document fields:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "localizedAttributes": [
      {"locales": ["jpn"], "attributePatterns": ["*_ja"]},
      {"locales": ["eng"], "attributePatterns": ["*_en"]},
      {"locales": ["cmn"], "attributePatterns": ["*_zh"]},
      {"locales": ["fra", "ita"], "attributePatterns": ["latin.*"]},
      {"locales": [], "attributePatterns": ["*"]}
    ]
  }'
```

`locales` is a list of ISO-639-3 language codes to assign to a pattern. The currently supported languages are: `epo`, `eng`, `rus`, `cmn`, `spa`, `por`, `ita`, `ben`, `fra`, `deu`, `ukr`, `kat`, `ara`, `hin`, `jpn`, `heb`, `yid`, `pol`, `amh`, `jav`, `kor`, `nob`, `dan`, `swe`, `fin`, `tur`, `nld`, `hun`, `ces`, `ell`, `bul`, `bel`, `mar`, `kan`, `ron`, `slv`, `hrv`, `srp`, `mkd`, `lit`, `lav`, `est`, `tam`, `vie`, `urd`, `tha`, `guj`, `uzb`, `pan`, `aze`, `ind`, `tel`, `pes`, `mal`, `ori`, `mya`, `nep`, `sin`, `khm`, `tuk`, `aka`, `zul`, `sna`, `afr`, `lat`, `slk`, `cat`, `tgl`, `hye`.

`attributePattern` is a pattern that can start or end with a `*` to match one or several attributes.

If an attribute matches several rules, only the first rule in the list will be applied. If the locales list is empty, then Meilisearch is allowed to auto-detect any language in the matching attributes.

These rules are applied to the `searchableAttributes`, the `filterableAttributes`, and the `sortableAttributes`.

### Set language at search time with `locales`

The `/search` route accepts a new parameter, `locales`. Use it to define the language used in the current query:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "q": "進撃の巨人",
    "locales": ["jpn"]
  }'
```

The `locales` parameter overrides eventual `locales` in the index settings.

## Experimental: Edit documents with a Rhai function

Use a [Rhai function](https://rhai.rs/) to edit documents in your database directly from Meilisearch:

First, activate the experimental feature:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "editDocumentsByFunction": true
  }'
```

Then query the `/documents/edit` route with the editing function:

```bash
curl http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/documents/edit \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '{
   "function": "doc.title = `✨ ${doc.title.to_upper()} ✨`",
   "filter": "id > 3000"
  }'
```

`/documents/edit` accepts three parameters in its payload: `function`, `filter`, and `context`.

`function` must be a string with a Rhai function. `filter` must be a [filter expression.](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/filtering_and_sorting/filter_expression_reference). `context` must be an object with data you want to make available for the editing function.

📖 More information [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/Update-Documents-by-Function-0cff8fea7655436592e7c8a6de932062).

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/762).

Done by @Kerollmops in #4626.

## Experimental AI-powered search: quality of life improvements

For the purpose of future stabilization of the feature, we are applying changes and quality-of-life improvements.

Done by @dureuill in #4801, #4815, #4818, #4822.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes: Changing the parameters of the REST API

The old parameters of the REST API are too numerous and confusing.

Removed parameters: `query` , `inputField`, `inputType`, `pathToEmbeddings` and `embeddingObject`.
Replaced by:
- `request` : A JSON value that represents the request made by Meilisearch to the remote embedder. The text to embed must be replaced by the placeholder value `“{{text}}”`.
- `response`: A JSON value that represents a fragment of the response made by the remote embedder to Meilisearch. The embedding must be replaced by the placeholder value `"{{embedding}}"`.

Before:

```json5
// v1.10 version ✅
{
  "source": "rest",
  "url": "https://localhost:10006",
  "request": {
    "model": "minillm",
    "prompt": "{{text}}"
  },
  "response": {
    "embedding": "{{embedding}}"
  }
}
```

```json5
// v1.9 version ❌
{
  "source": "rest",
  "url": "https://localhost:10006",
  "query": {
    "model": "minillm",
  },
  "inputField": ["prompt"],
  "inputType": "text",
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
}
```

> [!CAUTION]
> This is a breaking change to the configuration of REST embedders.
> Importing a dump containing a REST embedder configuration will fail in v1.10 with an error: "Error: unknown field `query`, expected one of `source`, `model`, `revision`, `apiKey`, `dimensions`, `documentTemplate`, `url`, `request`, `response`, `distribution` at line 1 column 752".

Upgrade procedure:

1. Remove embedders with source `"rest"`
2. Update your [Meilisearch Cloud project](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating#updating-meilisearch-cloud) or [self-hosted Meilisearch instance](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating#updating-a-self-hosted-meilisearch-instance) as usual

### Add custom headers to REST embedders

When the `source` of an embedder is set to `rest`, you may include an optional `headers` parameter. Use this to configure custom headers you want Meilisearch to include in the requests it sends the embedder.

Embedding requests sent from Meilisearch to a remote REST embedder always contain two headers:

- `Authorization: Bearer <apiKey>` (only if `apiKey` was provided)
- `Content-Type: application/json`

When provided, `headers` should be a JSON object whose keys represent the name of additional headers to send in requests, and the values represent the value of these additional headers.

If `headers` is missing or `null` for a `rest` embedder, only `Authorization` and `Content-Type` are sent, as described above.

If `headers` contains `Authorization` and `Content-Type`, the declared values will override the ones that are sent by default.

Using the `headers` parameter for any other `source` besides `rest` results in an `invalid_settings_embedder` error.

### Other quality-of-life improvements

📖 More details [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-10-AI-search-changes-737c9d7d010d4dd685582bf5dab579e2)

* Add `url` parameter to the OpenAI embedder. `url` should be an URL to the embedding endpoint (including the v1/embeddingspart) from OpenAI. If `url` is missing or `null` for an `openAi` embedder, the default OpenAI embedding route will be used (https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings).
* `dimensions` is now available as an optional parameter for `ollama` embedders. Previously it was only available for rest, `openAi` and `userProvided` embedders.
* Previously `_vectors.embedder` was omitted for documents without at least one embedding for `embedder`. This was inconsistent and prevented the user from checking the value of `regenerate`.
* When a request to a REST embedder fails, the duration of the exponential backoff is now randomized up to twice its base duration
* Truncate rather than embed by chunk when OpenAI embeddings are bigger than the max number of tokens
* Improve error message when indexing documents and embeddings are missing for a user-provided embedder
* Improve error message when a model configuration cannot be loaded and its "architectures" field does not contain "BertModel"

## ⚠️ Important change regarding the minimal Ubuntu version compatible with Meilisearch

Because the GitHub Actions runner now enforces the usage of a Node version that is not compatible with Ubuntu 18.04 anymore, we had to upgrade the minimal Ubuntu version compatible with Meilisearch. Indeed, we use these GitHub actions to build and provide our binaries.

Now, Meilisearch is only compatible with Ubuntu 20.04 and later and not with Ubuntu 18.4 anymore.

Done by @curquiza in #4783.

## Other improvements

* Search speed optimization: implement intersection at the end of the search pipeline by @Kerollmops in #4717
* Indexing speed optimization: stop opening indexes to only check if they exist by @Karribalu in #4787
* Improve tenant token error messages by @irevoire in #4724
* Add null byte as hard context separator by @LukasKalbertodt in meilisearch/charabia#295
* Adds all [math symbols](https://www.compart.com/en/unicode/category/Sm) to the default separator list by @phillitrOSU in meilisearch/charabia#301
* Errors emitted at the main level of the Meilisearch binary are now logged with level `ERROR` by @dureuill in #4835

# Fixes 🐞

* Fix invalid primary key for big numbers @JWSong in #4725
* Fix wrong HTTP status and confusing error message on wrong payload by @Karribalu in #4716
* Fix the missing geo distance when one or both of the lat/lng are string by @irevoire in #4731
* Fix errors related to `OffsetDateTime`: use a fixed date format regardless of features by @dureuill in #4850
* Fix filter that doesn't return valid documents by @dureuill in #4864 & #4858

# Misc

* Dependencies updates
  * Update most of the dependencies by @irevoire in #4786
  * Update yaup by @irevoire in #4703
  * Bump docker/build-push-action from 5 to 6 by @dependabot in #4758
  * Bump zerovec from 0.10.1 to 0.10.4 by @dependabot in #4785
  * Update rustls as much as possible by @irevoire in #4806
* CIs and tests
  * Fix CI with Rust v1.79 by @dureuill in #4723
  * Fix flaky test by @irevoire in #4730
  * Specify the rust toolchain by @irevoire in #4706
  * Add `vX` Docker tag when publishing Docker image by @curquiza in #4761
  * Add search benchmarks by @dureuill in #4762
  * Add tests on the rest embedder by @irevoire and @dureuill in #4755
  * Add OpenAI tests by @dureuill in #4846
* Documentation
  * Add june 11th webinar banner by @Strift in #4691
  * Revert "Add june 11th webinar banner" by @curquiza in #4705
  * Update the README to link more demos by @Kerollmops in #4711
  * Update README.md by @Strift in #4721
  * Change the Meilisearch logo to the kawaii version by @Kerollmops in #4778
* Misc
  * New workload to ignore the initial compression phase by @Kerollmops in #4773
  * Rename the sortable into the filterable movies workload by @Kerollmops in #4774
  * Correct apk usages in Dockerfile by @PeterDaveHello in #4781
  * Make milli use edition 2021 by @hanbings in #4770
  * Allow `MEILI_NO_VERGEN` env var to skip vergen by @dureuill in #4812

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @Karribalu, @hanbings, @junhochoi, @JWSong, @PeterDaveHello.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @LukasKalbertodt, @phillitrOSU.
