# v1.11.0 🐿️

Released: 2024-10-28

Meilisearch v1.11 introduces AI-powered search performance improvements thanks to binary quantization and various usage changes, all of which are steps towards a future stabilization of the feature. We have also improved federated search usage following user feedback.

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features. Consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and updates 🔥

## Experimental - AI-powered search improvements

This release is Meilisearch's first step towards stabilizing AI-powered search and introduces a few breaking changes to its API. [Consult the PRD for full usage details.](https://www.notion.so/meilisearch/v1-11-AI-search-changes-0e37727193884a70999f254fa953ce6e)

Done by @dureuill in #4906, #4920, #4892, and #4938.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes

* When performing AI-powered searches, `hybrid.embedder` is now a **mandatory** parameter in `GET` and `POST` `/indexes/{:indexUid}/search`
* As a consequence, it is now **mandatory** to pass `hybrid` even for pure semantic searches
* `embedder` is now a **mandatory** parameter in `GET` and `POST` `/indexes/{:indexUid}/similar`
* Meilisearch now ignores `semanticRatio` and performs a pure semantic search for queries that include `vector` but not `q`

### Addition & improvements

* The default model for OpenAI is now `text-embedding-3-small` instead of `text-embedding-ada-002`
* This release introduces a new embedder option: `documentTemplateMaxBytes`. Meilisearch will truncate a document's template text when it goes over the specified limit
* Fields in `documentTemplate` include a new `field.is_searchable` property. The default document template now filters out both empty fields and fields not in the searchable attributes list:

v1.11:
```
{% for field in fields %}
  {% if field.is_searchable and not field.value == nil %}
    {{ field.name }}: {{ field.value }}\n
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
```

v1.10:
```
{% for field in fields %}
  {{ field.name }}: {{ field.value }}\n
{% endfor %}
```

Embedders using the v1.10 document template will continue working as before. The new default document template will only work with newly created embedders.

## Vector database indexing performance improvements

v1.11 introduces a new embedder option, `binaryQuantized`:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "embedders": {
      "image2text": {
        "binaryQuantized": true
      }
    }
  }'
```

Enable binary quantization to convert embeddings of floating point numbers into embeddings of boolean values. This will negatively impact the relevancy of AI-powered searches but significantly improve performance in large collections with more than 100 dimensions.

In our benchmarks, this reduced the size of the database by a factor of 10 and divided the indexing time by a factor of 6 with little impact on search times.

> [!WARNING]
> Enabling this feature will update all of your vectors to contain only `1`s or `-1`s, significantly impacting relevancy.
>
> **You cannot revert this option once you enable it**. Before setting `binaryQuantized` to `true`, Meilisearch recommends testing it in a smaller or duplicate index in a development environment.

Done by @irevoire in #4941.

## Federated search improvements

### Facet distribution and stats for federated searches

This release adds two new federated search options, `facetsByIndex` and `mergeFacets`. These allow you to request a federated search for facet distributions and stats data.

#### Facet information by index

To obtain facet distribution and stats for each separate index, use `facetsByIndex` when querying the `POST` `/multi-search` endpoint:

```json5
POST /multi-search
{
  "federation": {
    "limit": 20,
    "offset": 0,
	"facetsByIndex": {
	  "movies": ["title", "id"],
	  "comics": ["title"],
	}
  },
  "queries": [
    {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "movies"
    },
    {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "comics"
    }
  ]
}
```

The multi-search response will include a new field, `facetsByIndex` with facet data separated per index:

```json5
{
  "hits": […],
  …
  "facetsByIndex": {
      "movies": {
        "distribution": {
          "title": {
            "Batman returns": 1
          },
          "id": {
            "42": 1
          }
        },
        "stats": {
          "id": {
            "min": 42,
            "max": 42
          }
        }
      },
     …
  }
}
```

#### Merged facet information

To obtain facet distribution and stats for all indexes merged into a single, use both `facetsByIndex` and `mergeFacets` when querying the `POST` `/multi-search` endpoint:

```json5
POST /multi-search
{

  "federation": {
    "limit": 20,
    "offset": 0,
	  "facetsByIndex": {
	    "movies": ["title", "id"],
	    "comics": ["title"],
	  },
	  "mergeFacets": {
	    "maxValuesPerFacet": 10,
	  }
  }
  "queries": [
    {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "movies"
    },
    {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "comics"
    }
  ]
}
```

The response includes two new fields, `facetDistribution` and `facetStarts`:

```json5
{
  "hits": […],
  …
  "facetDistribution": {
    "title": {
      "Batman returns": 1
      "Batman: the killing joke":
    },
    "id": {
      "42": 1
    }
  },
  "facetStats": {
    "id": {
      "min": 42,
      "max": 42
    }
  }
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #4929.

## Experimental — New `STARTS WITH` filter operator

Enable the experimental feature to use the `STARTS WITH` filter operator:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "containsFilter": true
  }'
```

Use the `STARTS WITH` operator when filtering:

```json5
curl \
  -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "filter": "hero STARTS WITH spider"
  }'
```

🗣️ This is an experimental feature, and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/763).

Done by @Kerollmops in #4939.

## Other improvements

* Language support and [localizedAttributes settings](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/settings#localized-attributes) by @ManyTheFish in #4937
  * Add ISO-639-1 variants
  * Convert ISO-639-1 into ISO-639-3
* Add a German language tokenizer by @luflow in meilisearch/charabia#303 and in #4945
* Improve Turkish language support by @tkhshtsh0917 in meilisearch/charabia#305 and in  #4957
* Upgrade "batch failed" log to error level in #4955 by @dureuill.
* Update the search UI: remove the forced capitalized fields, by @curquiza in #4993

# Fixes 🐞

* ⚠️ When using federated search, `query.facets` was silently ignored at the query level, but should not have been. It now returns the appropriate error. Use `federation.facetsByIndex` instead if you want facets to be applied during federated search.
* Prometheus `/metrics` return the route pattern instead of the real route when returning the HTTP requests total by @irevoire in #4839
* Truncate values at the end of a list of facet values when the number of facet values is larger than `maxValuesPerFacet`. For example, setting `maxValuesPerFacet` to `2` could result in `["blue", "red", "yellow"]`, being truncated to `["blue", "yellow"]` instead of ["blue", "red"]`. By @dureuill in #4929
* Improve the task cancellation when vectors are used, by @irevoire in #4971
* Swedish support: the characters `å`, `ä`, `ö` are no longer normalized to `a` and `o`. By @ManyTheFish in #4945
* Update rhai to fix an internal error when [updating documents with a function](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/762) (experimental) by @irevoire in #4960
* Fix the bad experimental search queue size by @irevoire in #4992
* Do not send empty edit document by function by @irevoire in #5001
* Display vectors when no custom vectors were ever provided by @dureuill in #5008

# Misc

* Dependencies updates
  * Security dependency upgrade: bump quinn-proto from 0.11.3 to 0.11.8 by @dependabot in #4911
* CIs and tests
  * Make the tests run faster by @irevoire in #4808
* Documentation
  * Fix broken links in README by @iornstein in #4943
* Misc
  * Allow Meilitool to upgrade from v1.9 to v1.10 without a dump in some conditions, by @dureuill in #4912
  * Fix bench by adding embedder by @dureuill in #4954
  * Revamp analytics by @irevoire in #5011

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearchg): @iornstein.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @luflow, @tkhshtsh0917.