# v1.25.0 🐈‍⬛

Released: 2025-11-10

## ✨ Enhancement

### 🔬 [Experimental]: Search personalization by @ManyTheFish in #5775

Add the ability to dynamically rerank the search results based on Cohere using a personalized prompt.
For more information on how to set it up, see the dedicated [experimental feature discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/866).

###  🔬 [Experimental]: Upload snapshot tarballs to S3 by @Kerollmops in #5948

Add the ability to upload snapshots directly to S3. It has many advantages, such as being able to stream the entire process and effectively utilizing multipart technology to send chunks of data in parallel.
For more information on how to use it, see the dedicated [experimental feature discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/869).

## 🪲 Bug fixes

### ⚠️ [Breaking - Security] Redact Authorization header in webhooks by @dureuill in #5968

The value of the `Authorization` header is now redacted when getting webhook, getting webhooks, or in the object returned when posting a new webhook or deleting a webhook.
- Impact on Cloud: Similarly to embedder API, the UI should make sure to never send the `Authorization` header back after it has been redacted
- Technically a **breaking change**, as users could previously get the key value back when getting the webhook, and that will no longer be possible

### 🚰 Fix the LMDB fork memory leak by @Kerollmops in #5967

This bug was causing crashes in the recent indexer optimizations. If you deactivated these optimizations by setting the following environment variables:
```
MEILI_EXPERIMENTAL_NO_EDITION_2024_FOR_PREFIX_POST_PROCESSING=true
MEILI_EXPERIMENTAL_NO_EDITION_2024_FOR_FACET_POST_PROCESSING=true
```
You can now safely reactivate them without experiencing memory leaks.

### 🇩🇪 Hotfix German word segmentation by @ManyTheFish in https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/pull/360

German word segmentation relies on a word dictionary to segment words, but if a word is not part of the dictionary, it is cut into bigrams. The segmenter will now skip segmenting unknown words:

```yaml
Source: "Feuchteschutz"
Before: ["Fe" "uc" "ht" "es, "ch", "utz"]
After:  ["Feuchteschutz"]

Source: "insgesamt"
Before: ["in" "sg" "es" "amt"]
After:  ["insgesamt"]
```

> If you have a Meilisearch database containing German words, you must reindex your data manually.

### 🇨🇳 Prevent splitting of numbers and English words in Chinese text segmentation by @JinheLin in https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/pull/354

It’s very common for Chinese, numbers, and English to appear together in the same sentence.
We now ensure that numbers and English are not segmented differently between segmenters:
```yaml
Source: "我从2025年开始学习Rust语言。"
Before: ["我", "从", "2", "0", "2", "5", "年", "开始", "学习", "R", "u", "s", "t", "语言", "。"]
After:  ["我", "从", "2025", "年", "开始", "学习", "Rust", "语言", "。"]
```

> If you have a Meilisearch database containing Chinese words, you must reindex your data manually.

## 🔩 Miscellaneous

- Add Flickr example to README by @Kerollmops in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/5961

Thanks to @JinheLin, @dureuill, @Kerollmops, and @ManyTheFish for their contribution! 🎉 