# v1.3.0 🦁

Released: 2023-07-31

Meilisearch v1.3.0 introduces vector search, visible ranking score details, and the possibility to define fields to search on at search time. It also now includes the ability to search within facet values and sort facet values by count.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).
<br/>

---
## ⚡ Supercharge your Meilisearch experience

Say goodbye to server deployment and manual updates with [Meilisearch Cloud](https://www.meilisearch.com/cloud?utm_campaign=oss&utm_source=github&utm_medium=meilisearch). Get started with a 14-day free trial! No credit card required.

---
<br/>

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Vector Search — Experimental

You can now use Meilisearch as a vector store. Meilisearch allows you to add vector embeddings generated by third-party software, and use embeddings when searching with the `/search` or `/multi-search` routes.

This experimental feature can be enabled via the HTTP API using v1.3.0's new `/experimental-features` endpoint.

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "vectorStore": true
  }'
```

### Sending Vectorized Documents

For the first iteration of this feature you must compute the vectors using a third-party tool such as [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/), [Cohere](https://cohere.com/), or [OpenAI](https://openai.com/). Once that is done, include them in your documents using the `_vectors` field. Finally, send the documents with vector data to your instance. A single document may contain multiple vectors.

⚠️ Vector size must be the same across all documents in a dataset. If vector sizes are inconsistent, Meilisearch will return an error during document addition.

```bash
curl -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  'localhost:7700/indexes/songs/documents' \
  --data-binary '[
      { "id": 0, "_vectors": [0, 0.8, -0.2], "title": "Across The Universe" },
      { "id": 1, "_vectors": [1, -0.2, 0], "title": "All Things Must Pass" },
      { "id": 2, "_vectors": [[0.5, 3, 1], [-0.2, 4, 6]], "title": "And Your Bird Can Sing" }
  ]'
```

### Query Meilisearch using Vectors

Use the new `vector` search parameter with the `/search` and `/multi-search` to search for documents with the nearest vector. You must compute the vector query with a third-party tool.

```bash
curl -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' \
'localhost:7700/indexes/songs/search' \
--data-binary '{ "vector": [0, 1, 2] }'
```

### Similarity score

When you use vector search, returned documents include a `_semanticScore` field.

```json
{
  "hits": [
    { "id": 0, "_vectors": [0, 0.8, -0.2], "title": "Across The Universe", "_semanticScore": 0.6754 },
    { "id": 1, "_vectors": [1, -0.2, 0], "title": "All Things Must Pass", "_semanticScore": 0.7546 },
    { "id": 2, "_vectors": [[0.5, 3, 1], [-0.2, 4, 6]], "title": "And Your Bird Can Sing", "_semanticScore": 0.78 }
  ],
  "query": "",
  "vector": [0, 1, 2],
  "processingTimeMs": 0,
  "limit": 20,
  "offset": 0,
  "estimatedTotalHits": 2
}
```


🗣️ This feature is experimental and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/677).

⚠️ Experimental features may be incompatible between Meilisearch versions.

Done by @Kerollmops in #3825 and #3948

## Display ranking scores at search

Use the new `showRankingScore` search parameter to see the ranking scores for returned documents.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "Batman Returns", "showRankingScore": true }'
```

Each returned document will include a `_rankingScore` property displaying a score between 0 and 1. The higher the ranking score, the more relevant the document.

```json
"_rankingScore": 0.8575757575757575,
```

### Ranking score details — Experimental

View detailed scores per ranking rule for each document with the experimental `showRankingScoreDetails` search parameter.

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "Batman Returns", "showRankingScoreDetails": true }'
```

When `showRankingScoreDetails` is set to `true`, returned documents include a `_rankingScoreDetails` field. This field contains score values for each ranking rule.

```json
"_rankingScoreDetails": {
  "words": {
    "order": 0,
    "matchingWords": 1,
    "maxMatchingWords": 1,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "typo": {
    "order": 1,
    "typoCount": 0,
    "maxTypoCount": 1,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "proximity": {
    "order": 2,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "attribute": {
    "order": 3,
    "attributes_ranking_order": 0.8,
    "attributes_query_word_order": 0.6363636363636364,
    "score": 0.7272727272727273
  },
  "exactness": {
    "order": 4,
    "matchType": "noExactMatch",
    "matchingWords": 0,
    "maxMatchingWords": 1,
    "score": 0.3333333333333333
  }
}
```

This experimental feature can be turned on via the HTTP API using v1.3.0's new `/experimental-features` endpoint.

```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "scoreDetails": true
  }'
```

🗣️ This feature is experimental and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/674).

⚠️ Experimental features may be incompatible between Meilisearch versions.

### Relevancy change on `attribute` ranking rule

The `attribute` ranking rule now determines relevancy based on the distance to the position of the word in the query rather than the absolute distance to the beginning of a document.

Previously, documents with attributes containing search terms at the beginning of the attribute would be considered more relevant than documents containing search terms at the end of an attribute.

Done by @dureuill in #3771 and #3949

## Define fields to search on at search time

`attributesToSearchOn` is a new search parameter accepting an array of strings indicating one or more document attributes. Queries using `attributesToSearchOn` will restrict the search to the indicated attributes.

Attributes passed to `attributesToSearchOn` must be in the [searchable attributes list](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/configuration/displayed_searchable_attributes#the-searchableattributes-list).

Given the following dataset:


```json
{
  "id": 0,
  "name": "Our Wives Under the Sea",
  "genre": ["horror", "scifi"],
  "synopsis": "A woman returns to her wife transformed after a deep-sea adventure."
},
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "A Strange and Stubborn Endurance",
  "genre": ["adventure"],
  "synopsis": "A man must overcome trauma and fight off a mysterious assassin."
}
```


And the following query:


```json
{
  "q": "adventure",
  "attributesToSearchOn": ["genre"]
}
```
Meilisearch will only return document 1.

Both documents contain the term `"adventure"`, but `"attributesToSearchOn": ["genre"]` instructs Meilisearch to only consider results found on the `genre` field.


Done by @ManyTheFish and @dureuill in (#3834, #3915)


## Search for facet values
The new endpoint `POST /indexes/{index}/facet-search` allows you to search for facet values. Only fields defined as `filterableAttributes` will be facet-searchable.

Facet search supports [prefix search](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/advanced/prefix) and [typo tolerance](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/configuration/typo_tolerance).

```bash
 curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/facet-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "facetName": "genres",
    "facetQuery": "a"
  }'
```

Done by @Kerollmops in (#3699)

## Sort facet values by count


Order facets by `count` using the `sortFacetValuesBy` property of the [`faceting` index settings](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/settings#faceting). This allows you to sort facet values in descending order by the number of matched documents containing that facet value.

It is possible to change this ordering for all facets using `*`:

```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings/faceting \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "sortFacetValuesBy": {"*": "count"}
  }'
```

Alternatively, it is possible to order a single facet by `count`, while other attributes follow alphanumeric ordering:

```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings/faceting \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
--data-binary '{
    "sortFacetValuesBy": {"*": "alpha", "genre": "count"}
  }'
```

Done by @Kerollmops in (#3612)

## Language support improvements

* Enhance Japanese word segmentation (#218) @mosuka
* Enhance separator-based Tokenization (#215) @ManyTheFish
  - words containing `_` are now properly segmented into several words
  - brackets `{([])}` are no longer considered as context separators for the `proximity` ranking rule

Done by @ManyTheFish, @mosuka in [#3866] and in [Charabia v0.8.1](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.8.1)


## Display a total count of tasks on the `/tasks/` route
The `/tasks` route now displays the total number of tasks in the task queue with a `total` property. It also displays the total number of tasks within a specific filter e.g. you can view the total number of successfully processed tasks with `/tasks?statuses=succeeded`. This detail gives insight into the progress of processed tasks over time.

Done by @Kerollmops in (#3889)

## Other improvements


* Improve the Prometheus `/metrics` experimental feature ([#625](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/625)). Provides metrics on the task queue such as the number of queued tasks and the number of processing tasks. Adds the real database size used by Meilisearch. Add "meilisearch" prefix to metrics. Exposes `lastUpdate` and `isIndexing` in` /stats` endpoint (#3789, #3861, #3851) @irevoire @dureuill @gentcys
* Reduce index size (~15%) by removing an internal database (#3819) @loiclec
* Add new `/experimental-features` endpoint to configure `scoreDetails` and `vectorStore`  (#3850) @dureuill
* Reduce deserialization time by using `RoaringBitmap::deserialize_unchecked_from` (#3788) @Kerollmops
* Re-enable autobatching for addition and deletion tasks (#3670) @irevoire
* Improve local search preview web interface and update mini-dashboard to version [v0.2.11](https://github.com/meilisearch/mini-dashboard/releases/tag/v0.2.8) (#3955)  @bidoubiwa


# Fixes 🐞
* Fix matching results returned by the `exactness` ranking rules when there are hard separators present (#3824) @dureuill
* Fix an issue where searching for words without `.` doesn't match any string in the index ([#151](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/151), [#3778](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3778))
* Fix case-sensitive search result issues with camelCasing. For example, a search for `dellonghi` would previously not return a document with `DeLonghi` in it. This deactivates camel case segmentation that was introduced in v1.2.0 (#3921) @ManyTheFish
* Fix an issue around incorrect deletion of documents when using the `disableOnAttributes` typo setting  (#3819) @loiclec
* Replace the `atty` dependency with the `is-terminal` due to security vulnerability (#3878) @Kerollmops
* Fix a panic when sorting geo fields represented by strings (#3929) @Kerollmops
* Fix performance issue on `/stats` by no longer computing total size of the update files folder (#3933) @Kerollmops
* Security: use the new safe `read-txn-no-tls` heed feature (#3952) @Kerollmops
* Fix an [issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3924) when querying number by updating Charabia (#3937) @ManyTheFish

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump actions/setup-go from 3 to 4 (#3805)
  * Bump Swatinem/rust-cache from 2.2.1 to 2.4.0 (#3803)
  * Bump svenstaro/upload-release-action from 2.5.0 to 2.6.1 (#3804)
* CIs and tests
  * Add a cron test with disabled tokenization (with @roy9495) (#3779) @curquiza
  * Improve SDK CI to choose the Docker image (#3844, #3813, #3783) @curquiza
  * Fix error messages in `check-release.sh` (#3799) @vvv

* Documentation
  * Move comments above keys in config.toml (#3731) @jirutka
  * Add more documentation to graph-based ranking rule algorithms (#3835) @loiclec
  * Fix some broken links (#3853) @0xflotus
  * Update UTM campaign (#3953) @macraig

* Misc
  * Revert "Improve docker cache" (#3781) @curquiza
  * Fix some typos (#3842) @cuishuang
  * Fix analytics properties on multiple events (#3877) @dureuill
  * Fix the way we compute the 99th percentile (#3891) @Kerollmops

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @cuishuang, @jirutka, @vvv, @0xflotus, @roy9495, @gentcys
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @mosuka, @vvv