# v1.37.0

Released: 2026-03-02

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This release contains [**breaking changes**](#v137-replicated-sharding-breaking-changes) for users of the `network` experimental feature.


Meilisearch v1.37 introduces [replicated sharding](#v137-replicated-sharding), removes the [`vectorStoreSetting` experimental feature](#v137-vector-store), stabilizes our new vector store for best performance, adds a [security fix](#v137-security) and [miscellaneous improvements](#v137-misc).


# ✨ Improvements

## <a id="v137-replicated-sharding" href="#v137-replicated-sharding">§</a> Replicated sharding

> [!NOTE]
> Replicated sharding requires Meilisearch Enterprise Edition (EE).
> - Users of Meilisearch Cloud, please contact support if you need replicated sharding.
> - Users of the Community Edition, please contact the sales if you want to use replicated sharding in production.

### <a id="v137-replicated-sharding-breaking-changes" href="#v137-replicated-sharding-breaking-changes">§</a> Breaking changes

- `network` objects sent to the `PATCH /network` route must now contain at least one `shard` object containing at least one remote when `leader` is not `null`.

Existing databases will be migrated automatically when upgraded with `--experimental-dumpless-upgrade` when `leader` is not `null`, such that for each remote:
1. A shard with the same name as the remote is created
2. This shard has exactly one remote in its `remotes` list: the remote with the same name as the shard.

This change will not cause any document to be resharded.

To be able to upgrade without resharding, the migration uses the same name for remotes and for shards. However, in new configurations, we recommend using different names for shards and remotes.

<details>

<summary>Example of migration</summary>

For instance, the following network object:

```jsonc
{
  "leader": "ms-00",
  "self": "ms-01",
  "remotes": {
    "ms-00": { /* .. */ },
    "ms-01": { /* .. */ }
  }
}
```

is converted to:

```jsonc
{
  "leader": "ms-00",
  "self": "ms-01",
  "remotes": {
    "ms-00": { /* .. */ },
    "ms-01": { /* .. */ }
  },
  "shards": {  // ✨ NEW
    "ms-00": {  // shard named like the remote
      "remotes": ["ms-00"] // is owned by the remote
    },
    "ms-01": {
      "remotes": ["ms-01"]
    }
  }
}
```

</details>

### Addition of `network.shards`

The `network` object for routes `PATCH /network`  and `GET /network` now contains the new field `shards`, which is an object whose values are `shard` objects, and keys the name of each shard.

Each `shard` object contains a single field `remotes`, which is an array of strings, each string representing the name of an existing remote. 

#### Convenience fields

The `shard` objects in `PATCH /network` contain the additional fields `addRemotes` and `removeRemotes` meant for convenience:

- pass an array of remote names to `shard.addRemotes` to add these remotes to the list of remotes of a shard.
- pass an array of remote names to `shard.removeRemotes` to remove these remotes from the list of remotes of a shard.
- if present and non-`null`, `shard.remotes` will completely override the existing list of remotes for a shard.
- if several of these options are present and non-`null`, then the order of application is  `shard.remotes`, then `shard.addRemotes`, then `shard.removeShards`.

<details>

<summary>Adding a new shard with some remotes</summary>

```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  // assuming that remotes `ms-0`, `ms-1`, `ms-2` where sent in a previous call to PATCH /network
  "shards": {
    "s-a": { // new shard
      "remotes": ["ms-0", "ms-1"]
    }
  }
}
```

Remotes `ms-0` and `ms-1` own the new shard `s-a`.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Fully overriding the list of remotes owning a shard</summary>

```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  // assuming remotes `ms-0`, `ms-1`, `ms-2`
  // assuming shard `s-a`, owned by `ms-0` and `ms-1`
  "shards": {
    "s-a": {
      "remotes": ["ms-2"]
    }
  }
}
```

`ms-2` is now the sole owner of `s-a`, replacing `ms-0` and `ms-1`.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Adding a remote without overriding the list of remotes owning a shard</summary>

```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  // assuming remotes `ms-0`, `ms-1`, `ms-2`
  // assuming shard `s-a`, owned by `ms-2`
  "shards": {
    "s-a": {
      "addRemotes": ["ms-0"]
    }
  }
}
```

`ms-0` and `ms-2` are now the owners of `s-a`.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Removing a remote without overriding the list of remotes owning a shard</summary>

```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  // assuming remotes `ms-0`, `ms-1`, `ms-2`
  // assuming shard `s-a`, owned by `ms-0` and `ms-2`
  "shards": {
    "s-a": {
      "removeRemotes": ["ms-2"]
    }
  }
}
```

`ms-0` is now the sole owner of `s-a`.

</details>

<details>

<summary>Entirely removing a shard from the list of shards</summary>


Set the shard to `null`:


```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  "shards": {
    "s-a": null
  }
}
```


Or set its `remotes` list to the empty list:


```jsonc
// PATCH /network
{
  "shards": {
    "s-a": {
      "remotes": []
    }
  }
}
```

</details>


#### `network.shards` validity

When `network.leader` is not `null`, each `shard` object in `network.shards` must:

1. Only contain `remotes` that exist in the list of `remotes`.
2. Contain at least one remote.

Additionally, `network.shards` must contain at least one shard.

Failure to meet any of these conditions will cause the `PATCH /network` route to respond with `400 invalid_network_shards`.

### Change in sharding logic

Documents are now sharded according to the list of shards declared in the network rather than the list of remotes. All remotes owning a shard will process the documents that belong to this shard, allowing for replication.

<details>

<summary>Example of replication</summary>

The following configuration defines 3 remotes `0`, `1` and `2`, and 3 shards `A`, `B`, `C`, such that each remote owns two shards, achieving replication (losing one remote does not lose any document).

```jsonc
{
  "leader": "0",
  "self": "0",
  "remotes": {
    "0": { /* .. */ },
    "1": { /* .. */ },
    "2": { /* .. */ }
  },
  "shards": {
    "A": {
      "remotes": ["0", "1"]
    },
    "B": {
      "remotes": ["1", "2"]
    },
    "C": {
      "remotes": ["2", "0"]
    }
  }
}
```

</details>

- Full replication is supported by having all remotes own all the shards.
- Unbalanced replication is supported by having some remotes own more shards than other remotes.
- "Watcher" remotes are supported by having remotes that own no shards. Watcher remotes are not very useful in this release, and might be upgraded in a future release, so that they keep all documents without indexing them, allowing to "respawn" shards for other remotes.

### `useNetwork` takes `network.shards` into account

When `useNetwork: true` is passed to a search query, it is expanded to multiple queries such that each shard declared in `network.shards` appears exactly once, associated with a remote that owns that shard.

This ensures that there is no missing or duplicate documents in the results.

### `_shard` filters

When the `network` experimental feature is enabled, then it becomes possible to filter documents depending on the shard they belong to.

Given `s-a` and `s-b` the names of two shards declared in `network.shards`, then:

- `_shard = "s-a"` in a `filter` parameter to the search or documents fetch will return the documents that belong to `s-a`.
- `_shard != "s-a"` will return the documents that do **not** belong to `s-a`
- `_shard IN ["s-a", "s-b"]` will return the documents that belong to `s-a` or to `s-b`.

You can use these new filters in manual remote federated search to create a partitioning over all shards in the network.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To avoid duplicate or missing documents in results, for manually crafted remote federated search requests, all shards should appear in **exactly one** query.

> [!TIP]
> Search requests built with `useNetwork: true` already build a correct partitioning over shards. They should be preferred to manually crafted remote federated search requests in replicated sharding scenarios.

### Update instructions

When updating your Meilisearch network using dumpless upgrade, please observe the following guidelines:

1. Do not call the `PATCH /network` route until all remotes of the network are finished updating
2. If using the search routes with `useNetwork: true`, call them on un-updated remotes. Calling it on already updated remotes will cause un-updated remotes to fail the search as they don't know about the `_shard` filters.


By @dureuill in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6128

## <a id="v137-vector-store" href="#v137-vector-store">§</a> Remove `vectorStoreSetting` experimental feature

The new HNSW vector store ([hannoy](https://github.com/nnethercott/hannoy)) has been stabilized and is now the only supported vector store in Meilisearch.

As a result, updating to v1.37.0 will migrate all remaining legacy vector store indexes (using arroy) to hannoy, and the [`vectorStoreSetting` experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/860) is no longer available.

By @Kerollmops in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6176

## Improve indexing performance for embeddings

We removed a computationally expensive step from vector indexing.

On a DB with 20M documents, this removes 300s per indexing batch of 1100s.

By @Kerollmops in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6175

## <a id="v137-security" href="#v137-security">§</a> 🔒 Security

- Bump mini-dashboard (local web interface) which
    - now stores API key in RAM instead of in the `localStorage`
    - bumps dependencies with potential security vulnerabilities
    
By @Strift and @curquiza in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6186 and https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6172

## <a id="v137-misc" href="#v137-misc">§</a> 🔩 Miscellaneous

- Mark Cargo.lock as not linguist-generated by @Kerollmops in [https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6181](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/6181)

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/compare/v1.36.0...v1.37.0