# v1.4.0 🦓

Released: 2023-09-25

Meilisearch v1.4 improves the search result relevancy by introducing three new settings: `nonSeparatorTokens`, `separatorTokens` and `dictionary`.

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Customize text separators

Meilisearch word segmentation uses a list of characters to separate one word from another. The `nonSeparatorTokens` and `separatorTokens` index settings allow you to configure this to better fit your dataset.

Add a character to the `separator-tokens` list to use it as a word separator:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["&sect;", "&sep"]'
```

Add a character to the `non-separator-tokens` list when you don't want Meilisearch to use it to separate words:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/non-separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["@", "#", "&"]'
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Load user-defined dictionaries

Meilisearch word segmentation also relies on language-based dictionaries to segment words. Use the `dictionary` index setting to expand the default dictionaries and improve accuracy when working with datasets using domain-specific terms:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/dictionary' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."]'
```

This feature can be used together with the `stopWords` and `synonyms` index settings:

```json
{
    "dictionary": ["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."],
    "synonyms": {
            "J.R.R.": ["jrr", "J. R. R."],
            "J. R. R.": ["jrr", "J.R.R."],
            "jrr": ["J.R.R.", "J. R. R."],
    }
}
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Other improvements

Meilisearch better hides your data and no longer shows hidden document's fields in error messages. In case you are trying to sort by using a field that is not sortable but there are some of them that are not displayed either, you will see a message like the following:

```
Available sortable attributes are: price, stock, <..hidden-attributes>.
```

Done by @vivek-26 in #3945

# Fixes 🐞

* Fix synonyms display (#3946) @ManyTheFish
* Fix thai synonyms (#4033) @Kerollmops
* Fix synonyms with separators (#3994) @ManyTheFish
* Fix the swap index tasks (#4041) @irevoire
* Fix highlighting bug when searching for a phrase with cropping (#4028) @vivek-26
* Empty arrays/objects now return empty instead of null (#3997) @dogukanakkaya
* Fix the stats of the documents deletion by filter (#4053) @irevoire
* `\` can now be used at the end of the `filter` search parameter values (#4038 and #4043) @Kerollmops

## 🔴 Usage breaking change following `filter` bug fix

⚠️ This section only concerns users using the `filter` search parameter with `\` characters in the filter expression.

In this version, we fixed a bug regarding `\` in the `filter` search parameter expression. **Before v1.4.0, the users were not able to express all the filter expression they wanted.**

For example, if you add the following documents:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "path": "my\\test\\path"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "path": "my\\test\\path\\"
  }
]
```

(`\\` escaping here is about JSON escaping)

Before v1.4.0, if you wanted to filter on document 2, the filters `path = "my\\test\\path\\"` and `path = "my\\test\\path\\\"` led to an error.

Now, in v1.4.0, you can express all the possible filter expressions, no matter if the filter contains `\` or not. But to reach this, **you have to escape all the `\` characters in your filter**.

Following our example, to finally succeed in filtering on document 2, the filter should be: `path = "my\\\\test\\\\path\\\\"`.

👉 If you come from v1.3.X or before, and you used `\` in `filter`, here is the change to apply: following our example, to filter on document 1, before v1.4.0, you could apply the filter `path = "my\\test\\path"`. Now, from v1.4.0, you have to escape the `\` and apply the following filter: `path = "my\\\\test\\\\path"`.
Two escapings are applied: the JSON escaping and the Meilisearch filter escaping. The JSON unescaping transforms the `\\\\` into `\\` and the Meilisearch filter unescaping ends up with a single `\`.

If you need any help with this change, please feel free to reach us on our [Discord](https://discord.meilisearch.com/).

# Misc

  * Upgrade Meilisearch dependencies (#3987) @ManyTheFish
  * Upgrade CI dependencies (#3871, #3969 and #3968)
  * Fix CI benchmarks (#3963) @irevoire
  * Removed `borrow` call causing failed nightly tests (#3990) @JannisK89
  * Expose Puffin server to profile the indexing process (#3913) @Kerollmops
  * Update and fix the CI Test Suite (#3918) @Kerollmops
  * Improve CI test suite for manual trigger events (#3989) @curquiza
  * Update README.md (#3895 and #3932) @ferdi05 & @Strift
  * Fix Homebrew CI (#4016) @Kerollmops

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @dogukanakkaya, @JannisK89, and @vivek-26.
