# v1.6.0 🦊

Released: 2024-01-15

Meilisearch v1.6 focuses on improving indexing performance. This new release also adds hybrid search and simplifies the process of generating embeddings for semantic search.

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Experimental: Automated embeddings generation for vector search

With v1.6, you can configure Meilisearch so it automatically generates embeddings using either OpenAI or HuggingFace. If neither of these third-party options suit your application, you may provide your own embeddings manually:

- `openAI`: Meilisearch uses the OpenAI API to auto-embed your documents. You must supply an OpenAPI key to use this embedder
- `huggingFace`: Meilisearch automatically downloads the specified `model` from HuggingFace and generates embeddings locally. This will use your CPU and may impact indexing performance
- `userProvided`: Compute embeddings manually and supply document vectors to Meilisearch. You may be familiar with this approach if you have used vector search in a previous Meilisearch release. Read further for details on breaking changes for user provided embeddings usage

### Usage

Use the `embedders` index setting to configure embedders. You may set multiple embedders for an index. This example defines 3 embedders named `default`, `image` and `translation`:

```sh
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "embedders": {
      "default": {
        "source":  "openAi",
        "apiKey": "<your-OpenAI-API-key>",
        "model": "text-embedding-ada-002",
        "documentTemplate": "A movie titled \'{{doc.title}}\' whose description starts with {{doc.overview|truncatewords: 20}}"
      },
      "image": {
        "source": "userProvided",
        "dimensions": 512,
      },
      "translation": {
        "source": "huggingFace",
        "model": "sentence-transformers/paraphrase-multilingual-MiniLM-L12-v2",
        "documentTemplate": "A movie titled \'{{doc.title}}\' whose description starts with {{doc.overview|truncatewords: 20}}"
      }
    }
  }'
```

- `documentTemplate` is a view of your document that will serve as the base for computing the embedding. This field is a JSON string in the [Liquid format](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/)
- `model` is the model OpenAI or HuggingFace should use when generating document embeddings

Refer to [the documentation](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/experimental/vector_search) for more vector search usage instructions.

### ⚠️ Vector search breaking changes

If you have used vector search between v1.3.0 and v1.5.0, API usage has changed with v1.6:

- When providing both the `q` and `vector` parameters for a single query, you must provide the `hybrid` parameter

- Define a model in your embedder settings is now mandatory:

```json
"embedders": {
    "default": {
      "source": "userProvided",
      "dimensions": 512
    }
}
```

- Vectors should be JSON objects instead of arrays:

```js
"_vectors": { "image2text": [0.0, 0.1, …] } # ✅
"_vectors": [ [0.0, 0.1] ] # ❌
```

Done in #4226 by @dureuill, @irevoire, @Kerollmops and @ManyTheFish.

## Experimental: Hybrid search

This release introduces hybrid search functionality. Hybrid search allows users to mix keyword and semantic search at search time.

Use the `hybrid` search parameter to perform a hybrid search:

```sh
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "q": "Plumbers and dinosaurs",
    "hybrid": {
        "semanticRatio": 0.9,
        "embedder": "default"
    }
  }'
```

- `embedder` is the embedder you choose to perform the search among the ones you defined in your settings
- `semanticRatio` is a number between `0` and `1`. The default value is `0.5`. `1` corresponds to a full semantic search and `0` corresponds to keyword search

> [!TIP]
> The new vector search functionality uses [Arroy](https://github.com/meilisearch/arroy), a Rust library developed by the Meilisearch engine team. Check out @Kerollmops [blog post describing the whole process](https://blog.kerollmops.com/spotify-inspired-elevating-meilisearch-with-hybrid-search-and-rust).

Done in #4226 by @dureuill, @irevoire, @Kerollmops and @ManyTheFish.

## Improve indexing speed

This version introduces significant indexing performance improvements. Meilisearch v1.6 has been optimized to:
- store and pre-compute less data than in previous versions
- re-index and delete only the necessary data when updating a document. For example, when you update one document field, Meilisearch will no longer re-index the whole document

On an e-commerce dataset of 2.5Gb of documents, these changes led to more than a 50% time reduction when adding documents for the first time. When updating documents frequently and partially, re-indexing performance hovers between 50% and 75%.

⚠️ Performance improvements depend on your dataset, your machine, and how you're indexing documents.

Done in #4090 by @ManyTheFish, @dureuill and @Kerollmops.

## Disk space usage reduction

Meilisearch now stores less internal data. This leads to smaller database disk sizes.

With a ~15Mb dataset, the created database is 40% and 50% smaller. Additionally, the database size has become more stable and will display more modest growth with new document additions.

## Proximity precision and performance

You can now customize the accuracy of the [proximity ranking rule](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/core_concepts/relevancy#3-proximity).

Computing this ranking rule uses a significant amount of resources and may lead to increased indexing times. Lowering its precision may lead to significant performance gains. In a minority of use cases, lower proximity precision may also impact relevancy for queries using multiple search terms.

### Usage

```
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/books/settings/proximity-precision' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "proximityPrecision": "byAttribute"
  }'
```

`proximityPrecision` accepts either `byWord` or `byAttribute`:
- `byWord` calculates the exact distance between words. This is the default setting.
- `byAttribute` only determines whether words are present in the same attribute. It is less accurate, but provides better performance.

Done in #4225 by @ManyTheFish.

## Experimental: Limit the number of batched tasks

Meilisearch may occasionally batch too many tasks together, which may lead to system instability. Relaunch Meilisearch with the `--experimental-max-number-of-batched-tasks` configuration option to address this issue:

```sh
./meilisearch --experimental-max-number-of-batched-tasks 100
```

You may also configure `--experimental-max-number-of-batched-tasks` as an environment variable or directly in the config file with `MEILI_EXPERIMENTAL_MAX_NUMBER_OF_BATCHED_TASKS`.

Done in #4249 by @Kerollmops

## Task queue webhook

This release introduces a configurable webhook url that will be called whenever Meilisearch finishes processing a task.

Relaunch Meilisearch using `--task-webhook-url` and `--task-webhook-authorization-header` to use the webhook:

```sh
./meilisearch \
  --task-webhook-url=https://example.com/example-webhook?foo=bar&number=8 \
  --task-webhook-authorization-header=Bearer aSampleAPISearchKey
```

You may also define the webhook URL and header with environment variables or in the configuration file with `MEILI_TASK_WEBHOOK_URL` and `MEILI_TASK_WEBHOOK_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER`.

Done by @irevoire in #4238

# Fixes 🐞

* Fix document formatting performances during search (#4313) @ManyTheFish 
* The dump tasks are now cancellable (#4208) @irevoire
* Fix: the payload size limit is now also applied to all routes, not only routes to add and update documents (#4231) @Karribalu
* Fix: typo tolerance is ineffective for attributes with similar content (related issue: #4256)
* Fix: the geosort is no longer ignored after the first bucket of a preceding `sort` ranking rule (#4226)
* Fix hang on `/indexes` and `/stats` routes (#4308) @dureuill
* Limit the number of values returned by the facet search based on `maxValuePerFacet` setting (#4311) @Kerollmops

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Updating CI dependencies
  * Update to heed 0.20 (#4223) @Kerollmops
  * Set rust toolchain to 1.71.1 in Dockerfile (#4261) @dureuill
  * Update mini-dashboard to v0.2.12 (#4277) @mdubus
* Documentation
  * Remove banner (#4191) @curquiza
* Misc
  * Extract the creation and last updated timestamp from v2 dumps (#4132) @vivek-26
  * Fix puffin in the index scheduler (#4234) @irevoire
  * Remove the actix-web dependency from (#4239) @Kerollmops

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors: @Karribalu, and @vivek-26
